<b>MOVNTDQA</b> — Load Double Quadword Non-Temporal Aligned Hint
<table>
	<tr>
		<td><b>Opcode/ Instruction</b></td>
		<td><b>Op / En</b></td>
		<td><b>64/32 bit Mode Support</b></td>
		<td><b>CPUID Feature Flag</b></td>
		<td><b>Description</b></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>66 0F 38 2A /r MOVNTDQA xmm1, m128</td>
		<td>A</td>
		<td>V/V</td>
		<td>SSE4_1</td>
		<td>Move double quadword from m128 to xmm1 using non- temporal hint if WC memory type.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>VEX.128.66.0F38.WIG 2A /r VMOVNTDQA xmm1, m128</td>
		<td>A</td>
		<td>V/V</td>
		<td>AVX</td>
		<td>Move double quadword from m128 to xmm using non- temporal hint if WC memory type.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>VEX.256.66.0F38.WIG 2A /r VMOVNTDQA ymm1, m256</td>
		<td>A</td>
		<td>V/V</td>
		<td>AVX2</td>
		<td>Move 256-bit data from m256 to ymm using non-temporal hint if WC memory type.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 2A /r VMOVNTDQA xmm1, m128</td>
		<td>B</td>
		<td>V/V</td>
		<td>AVX512VL AVX512F</td>
		<td>Move 128-bit data from m128 to xmm using non-temporal hint if WC memory type.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 2A /r VMOVNTDQA ymm1, m256</td>
		<td>B</td>
		<td>V/V</td>
		<td>AVX512VL AVX512F</td>
		<td>Move 256-bit data from m256 to ymm using non-temporal hint if WC memory type.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 2A /r VMOVNTDQA zmm1, m512</td>
		<td>B</td>
		<td>V/V</td>
		<td>AVX512F</td>
		<td>Move 512-bit data from m512 to zmm using non-temporal hint if WC memory type.</td>
	</tr>
</table>

Instruction Operand Encoding1
<table>
	<tr>
		<td><b>Op/En</b></td>
		<td><b>Tuple Type</b></td>
		<td><b>Operand 1</b></td>
		<td><b>Operand 2</b></td>
		<td><b>Operand 3</b></td>
		<td><b>Operand 4</b></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>A</td>
		<td>NA</td>
		<td>ModRM:reg (w)</td>
		<td>ModRM:r/m (r)</td>
		<td>NA</td>
		<td>NA</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>B</td>
		<td>Full Mem</td>
		<td>ModRM:reg (w)</td>
		<td>ModRM:r/m (r)</td>
		<td>NA</td>
		<td>NA</td>
	</tr>
</table>


### Description
MOVNTDQA loads a double quadword from the source operand (second operand) to the destination operand (first
operand) using a non-temporal hint if the memory source is WC (write combining) memory type. For WC memory
type, the nontemporal hint may be implemented by loading a temporary internal buffer with the equivalent of an
aligned cache line without filling this data to the cache. Any memory-type aliased lines in the cache will be snooped
and flushed. Subsequent MOVNTDQA reads to unread portions of the WC cache line will receive data from the
temporary internal buffer if data is available. The temporary internal buffer may be flushed by the processor at any
time for any reason, for example:


 *  A load operation other than a MOVNTDQA which references memory already resident in a temporary internal
buffer.


 *  A non-WC reference to memory already resident in a temporary internal buffer.


 *  Interleaving of reads and writes to a single temporary internal buffer.


 *  Repeated (V)MOVNTDQA loads of a particular 16-byte item in a streaming line.


 *  Certain micro-architectural conditions including resource shortages, detection of

a mis-speculation condition, and various fault conditions

The non-temporal hint is implemented by using a write combining (WC) memory type protocol when reading the
data from memory. Using this protocol, the processor

does not read the data into the cache hierarchy, nor does it fetch the corresponding cache line from memory into
the cache hierarchy. The memory type of the region being read can override the non-temporal hint, if the memory
address specified for the non-temporal read is not a WC memory region. Information on non-temporal reads and
writes can be found in “Caching of Temporal vs. Non-Temporal Data” in Chapter 10 in the Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architecture Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A.

Because the WC protocol uses a weakly-ordered memory consistency model, a fencing operation implemented with
a MFENCE instruction should be used in conjunction with MOVNTDQA instructions if multiple processors might use
different memory types for the referenced memory locations or to synchronize reads of a processor with writes by
other agents in the system. A processor’s implementation of the streaming load hint does not override the effective
memory type, but the implementation of the hint is processor dependent. For example, a processor implementa-

1. ModRM.MOD = 011B required
tion may choose to ignore the hint and process the instruction as a normal MOVDQA for any memory type. Alter-
natively, another implementation may optimize cache reads generated by MOVNTDQA on WB memory type to
reduce cache evictions.

The 128-bit (V)MOVNTDQA addresses must be 16-byte aligned or the instruction will cause a \#GP.

The 256-bit VMOVNTDQA addresses must be 32-byte aligned or the instruction will cause a \#GP.

The 512-bit VMOVNTDQA addresses must be 64-byte aligned or the instruction will cause a \#GP.

### Operation


#### MOVNTDQA (128bit- Legacy SSE form)
```java
DEST ←SRC
DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)
```
#### VMOVNTDQA (VEX.128 and EVEX.128 encoded form)
```java
DEST ← SRC
DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0 
```
#### VMOVNTDQA (VEX.256 and EVEX.256 encoded forms)
```java
DEST[255:0] ← SRC[255:0]
DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ← 0
```
#### VMOVNTDQA (EVEX.512 encoded form)
```java
DEST[511:0] ← SRC[511:0]
DEST[MAXVL-1:512] ← 0
```
### Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent
```c
VMOVNTDQA __m512i _mm512_stream_load_si512(__m512i const* p);
MOVNTDQA __m128i _mm_stream_load_si128 (const __m128i *p);
VMOVNTDQA __m256i _mm256_stream_load_si256 (__m256i const* p);
```
### SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions

None

### Other Exceptions

Non-EVEX-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type1;
EVEX-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E1NF.
<p>#UD
If VEX.vvvv != 1111B or EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.

 --- 
<p align="right"><i>Source: Intel® Architecture Software Developer's Manual (May 2018)<br>Generated: 5-6-2018</i></p>
